Course 2, Module 3,
signed integers.
A signed integer is how we would
get negative numbers in
our operating system.
We know that we do need
negative numbers because
sometimes we have fragmentation
where files for sector may
be in front of its
preceding ones.
That's just one example of
why you would need
a negative number.
But how do we get
these negative values?
Well, whether a number has
the possibility of being a
positive or a negative number,
it being one of these signed
integers is determined by
the operating system code
or the programmer
who wrote that code.
These values are what we
call signed integers.
Now, just because it's a
signed integer doesn't
necessarily mean it
is a negative number.
Don't make that mistake.
What it means is it has
the possibility of being
a negative number.
If a condition is met.
That condition is the
most significant bit.
Remember back, I think in
our last course we talked
about the most significant bit
is that bit farthest to the left,
and the least significant would
be furthest to the right.
If that most significant bit,
that furthest to the
left bit is turned on,
meaning there's a
one in that column.
Like we saw when we did
our binary conversions.
If that bit is turned on
and you're talking
about a signed integer,
then yes, it is a
negative number.
In order for a signed integer
to be a negative number,
the most significant
bit must be turned on.
Here's an example
of a number 255.
We broke that out into its
binary representation.
You can see that
the furthest bit,
that 128 column for this to
the left has a one in
it and it is turned on.
This would be considered
a negative number if it
were a signed integer.
Down below, we can
see a second example.
I use the 95 like we
did the conversion
in our last block
and that number,
you could see the
most significant bit,
the 128 column is not turned
on because 128 will not
go into 95.If that
were a signed integer,
that would still be
a positive number.
When we determine the
actual numeric value
of a signed integer,
we want to use a tool
like data inspector
or data interpreter.
Most of these tools are
built into all your
forensic suite.
FTK Imager has one.
The tool we're going to use
throughout this course,
active disk editor has one.
They are in most of your tools
and they're even in free tools.
But you don't just put
a negative sign in front
of the positive value,
it has a different calculation
for the negative value.
Use a data interpreter or
a data inspector or some
type of data interpreting
tool to determine
the actual numeric
value of that number.
Now, breaking a
number all the way
out to binary to find out if
that last bit is turned on
is a little bit tiresome.
Let's look at this value
here on our screen.
It's 8A, 00,9B,00.The value
furthest to the left is 8A.
If we look at the
left nibble of eight,
if that is a signed integer,
and the nibble furthest to
the left is eight or greater.
It will be a negative
number because
that last bit is
going to be turned
on like we saw when we
did our conversions.
If that number is eight,
it is going to be
a negative number,
eight or greater on
the very last nibble.
The nibble furthest to the left,
the most significant value on
a signed integer will mean
that is a negative number.
Because we know that
last bit is going to be
flipped on if that number
is eight or greater.
In our next course,
we're going to be talking
about endianness,
how we read our bits
or data on a disk.
This is becoming very important
throughout the course.